The Columbus Academy Upper School
Student Handbook
   
The Columbus Academy Upper School
Student Handbook
Melissa Soderberg
Head of School
Cory Izokaitis
Head of Upper School
Pascal Losambe
Dean of Students
Craig Dow
Dean of Studies
Darnell Heywood
Director of College Counseling
Jen FitzPatrick
Assistant Director of College Counseling
Jennifer C. Lange
Registrar/Administrative Assistant to the Head of Upper School
4300 Cherry Bottom Road × Gahanna, Ohio 43230 Upper School Office × 614.509.2281
  
Table of Contents
Upper School Faculty Email Addresses.....................................1
Principles Guiding Columbus Academy Life .............................3
Mission Statement ...........................................................................................3 Core Values .....................................................................................................3 Diversity Statement..........................................................................................3 Non-Discrimination Policy ................................................................................4 Standards of Conduct ......................................................................................4
Academy Life ...............................................................................6
Graduation Requirements................................................................................6 Service Requirements .....................................................................................7 Academic Integrity ..........................................................................................8 Grade Point Average (GPA) ............................................................................11 Grade Reporting and Course Selection...........................................................13 Academic Services ..........................................................................................17
Policies, Procedures, and Expectations.....................................19
Dress Code ......................................................................................................19 Attendance Procedures ...................................................................................23 Harassment Policy ...........................................................................................26 Drug, Alcohol, and Tobacco Policy..................................................................28 Weapons ..........................................................................................................29 Discipline ..........................................................................................................29 Campus Life.....................................................................................................34 Campus Network Acceptable Use Policy ........................................................36

Upper School Faculty Email Addresses
        Faouzie Alchahal Jeffrey Arndt
Christy Bening
Amy Berkley
David Block
Beckett Broh
Chris Bolognese Amy Brooks
Amanda Bundy Jennifer Carlin Elizabeth Carmichael Silvia Chaves
John Compton
AlchahalA@columbusacademy.org ArndtJ@columbusacademy.org BeningC@columbusacademy.org BerkleyA@columbusacademy.org BlockD@columbusacademy.org BrohB@columbusacademy.org BologneseC@columbusacademy.org BrooksA@columbusacademy.org BundyA@columbusacademy.org CarlinJ@columbusacademy.org CarmichaelE@columbusacademy.org ChavesS@columbusacademy.org ComptonJ@columbusacademy.org CoreyS@columbusacademy.org CullinanS@columbusacademy.org DavisJ@columbusacademy.org
                                                    Sean Corey
Sean Cullinan
Joel Davis
Tom Devore       DevoreT@columbusacademy.org Scott Dillon       DillonSc@columbusacademy.org Craig Dow       DowC@columbusacademy.org
                     Heather Downey
Freda Eden       EdenF@columbusacademy.org
DowneyH@columbusacademy.org
       ExlineJ@columbusacademy.org FacciollaD@columbusacademy.org FarrenkopfS@columbusacademy.org FeinbergD@columbusacademy.org FiremanJ@columbusacademy.org FitzPatrickJ@columbusacademy.org
John Exline
Dominic Facciolla
Stefan Farrenkopf
David Feinberg
Janet Fireman
Jen FitzPatrick
Katie Frickel       FrickelK@columbusacademy.org Gerardina Garita       GaritaG@columbusacademy.org Rachel Gorsuch       GorsuchR@columbusacaddemy.org Elise Gursahaney       GursahaneyE@columbusacademy.org
                                    Darnell Heywood
Paul Hildahl
HeywoodD@columbusacademy.org
HildahlP@columbusacademy.org
        Pat Hogan       HoganP@columbusacademy.org Erich Hunker       HunkerE@columbusacademy.org
      IzokaitisC@columbusacademy.org JackyA@columbusacademy.org
Cory Izokaitis
Alex Jacky
Mary Johnson       JohnsonM@columbusacademy.org
             Bob Kirk
KirkB@columbusacademy.org
    1

     Moira Landes
   LandesM@columbusacademy.org
     Jennifer Lange
   LangeJ@columbusacademy.org
     Timothy Leet
   LeetT@columbusacademy.org
     Sumona Lester
      LesterS@columbusacademy.org
    Scott Linder
 LinderS@columbusacademy.org
     Todd Martin
   MartinT@columbusacademy.org
     Matt McCue
   McCueM@columbusacademy.org
     Matt Mele
      MeleM@columbusacademy.org
    Tim Morford
 MorfordT@columbusacademy.org
     Andrew Morris
   MorrisA@columbusacademy.org
     Valerie Nandor
   NandorV@columbusacademy.org
     Gwen Nzimiro
      NzimiroG@columbusacadem.org
    Dan Olexio
 OlexioD@columbusacademy.org
     Suzanne Ritter
      RitterS@columbusacademy.org
    Robert Russell
 RussellR@columbusacademy.org
     Charles Simpson
   SimpsonC@columbusacademy.org
     Jessica Sneeringer
   SneeringerJ@columbusacademy.org
     Mike Stegemiler
   StegemillerM@columbusacademy.org
     Brianna Stout
   StoutB@columbusacademy.org
     John Street
   StreetJ@columbusacademy.org
     Crystal Tursich
   TursichC@columbusacademy.org
     David Wong
   WongD@columbusacademy.org
     John Wuorinen
      WuorinenJ@columbusacademy.org
    Charity White
 WhiteC@columbusacademy.org
     Jing Yan
   YanJ@columbusacademy.org
     Hsaio-Ching Yang
   YangH@columbusacademy.org
     Joan Young
      YoungJ@columbusacadmey.org
  2

Principles Guiding Columbus Academy Life
Like any school handbook, this publication attempts to anticipate issues of school life, including issues regarding academic success and student behavior. It does not, nor can it, address all possible school issues. Thus, please consider this a “living document,” one that will require future additions, deletions, and/or modifications. Columbus Academy reserves the right to initiate any/all of these processes whenever necessary.
Mission Statement
Columbus Academy - an independent, coeducational, college preparatory school - enriches its academic tradition of excellence by valuing a broad diversity of students, as it seeks to develop the complete person - mind, body and character. The School rewards rigorous effort and accomplishment; fosters compassion, respect and moral courage; and insists on integrity, fair play, and community service. The Academy strives to develop and sustain a community of thoughtful, responsible, capable, and confident citizens eager to engage in a pluralistic and ever-changing world.
Core Values
Columbus Academy commits itself to the five core ethical values of Respect, Responsibility, Honesty, Compassion, and Fairness. Students and adults of the community are expected to conduct themselves accordingly. We pursue Integrity as individuals and as a school when we align our actions with these values. The pursuit of Integrity is not always easy, and doing “the right thing” often requires taking a risk. We, therefore, champion Moral Courage as an essential quality in a community committed to integrity.
Columbus Academy Diversity Statement
Columbus Academy believes that diversity, inclusion, equity and justice are essential to the excellence of our community, culture and curriculum. We recognize that the pursuit of this excellence requires thoughtful, deliberate and sustained action and that this effort is critical to our educational mission.
Community: We value diversity in all of its dimensions including but not limited to gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, physical abilities, family composition and socio-economic status. We seek to reflect multiple perspectives, backgrounds and interests in all facets of our
3

community. We recognize that students who are exposed to and embrace diversity are better prepared to engage in a pluralistic world.
Culture and Climate: We strive to be an inclusive community in which each individual feels safe, respected and valued. In building a community that values similarities and differences among its constituents, we seek to embody in our actions and in our relations with one another the principles of equity and justice as well as Columbus Academy’s core values of respect, responsibility, honesty, compassion, and fairness.
Curriculum: We believe that exposure to multiple – and even sometimes competing – points of view best equips students to explore, understand and apply complex concepts, building the basis for a rigorous education. By weaving diversity into the fabric of our curriculum, we equip our students with the interpersonal and critical thinking skills that are essential to success in the complex, multicultural world in which we live.
Columbus Academy adheres to National Association of Independent Schools (NAIS) Principles of Good Practice for Equity and Justice.
Non-Discrimination Policy
The Columbus Academy encourages and welcomes applications from students, faculty, and staff without regard to race, creed, sexual orientation, religion or national origin and does not discriminate in the administration of its educational policies, financial aid programs and school- administered extracurricular programs.
Columbus Academy’s Standards of Conduct
The Columbus Academy firmly believes that education best occurs in an environment of mutual respect among the various members of the school community. At all times students are expected to act with concern and consideration for the rights and possessions of others. The following general guidelines provide the framework for all school rules and regulations.
1. Students are expected to demonstrate honesty in all aspects of their lives at school. While they may from time to time act unwisely, we expect students always to assume responsibility for their actions.
2. As The Columbus Academy is first and foremost an academic institution, a particular emphasis is placed on honesty in all academic endeavors. In this context, students are responsible for knowing when and from what source they may accept assistance and when their work must truly be their own. Failure to properly credit sources of assistance constitutes cheating or plagiarism and will not be accepted.
4

3. In a community of people with differing interests, personalities, and backgrounds, each of us must respect and appreciate these differences. Therefore, actions threatening the safety of another student, such as bullying, hazing, harassment, verbal threats, or the like, are unacceptable. Disrespectful or threatening behavior, including behavior based on or motivated by an individual’s race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, or other protected class, will not be tolerated.
4. Property belonging to other people and to the school must be treated with respect. In this regard, theft, vandalism, and the invasion of private possessions, even when intending to be humorous, are considered serious offenses.
5. Believing that attendance is essential to educational success, the school expects students to be present and on time for their school commitments. Parents may excuse their children for legitimate health reasons, but the school reserves the right to determine whether other reasons for absence or tardiness are excused or unexcused.
6. The use of alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs, or tobacco products will not be tolerated. Students in possession of alcohol or drugs or under the influence thereof on campus or at a school event are subject to serious disciplinary consequences up to and including dismissal.
7. Columbus Academy takes a zero tolerance position on weapons possession. The school prohibits all persons from possessing any weapon, including items that look like or purport to be weapons, while in school, on school grounds, at school-sponsored activities/events, arriving/departing from school grounds or school-sponsored activities/events, and on school buses or any other school vehicle. Any student in possession of a weapon is subject to immediate dismissal from Columbus Academy.
8. Beyond these and other expressly written rules, Columbus Academy students are expected to conduct themselves in a responsible and becoming manner at all times. In this regard, Columbus Academy reserves the right to take appropriate disciplinary action when a student acts in a manner injurious or dangerous to himself or herself, to others, or to the best interests of the school community—whether on or off campus, during school sessions or vacations.
5

Academic Life Graduation Requirements
Credit is earned for a course with a passing final grade (D minus or above) in the course. Twenty credits are required and the following credits are part of the graduation total:
• 4 credits of English
• 4 credits of Mathematics (through Precalculus or Applied Mathematics)
• 3 credits of a single World Language (or 2 credits of two languages)
• 3 credits of History: World History 1, World History 2, and United States History
• 3 credits of Science: three units with one each from Biology, Chemistry, and Physics
• 1 credit of study in the Fine Arts, Performing Arts, or Music
All students must take a minimum of 5 credits in core courses per year.
In addition to the distribution requirements outlined above, students must satisfactorily complete the following in order to receive a Columbus Academy diploma:
• Health (1/4 credit)
• Satisfactory completion of Ethics and Community course
• Public Speaking requirement, including the Junior Speech (1/4 credit)
• Senior Project
• Summer Reading requirement
• Community Service requirement (50 hours)
• Ethics and Communiity
• 6 units of Physical Education (Participation in an interscholastic sport for one season
earns two units. Students may also earn two units by submitting a Physical Education Alternative Form for an activity that is not offered at Columbus Academy. A student may earn at most two units each school year.)
In order for a student to graduate, all full—credit courses taken in the senior year must receive a passing grade.
*Additionally, upperclassmen who have demonstrated a commitment to the arts and intend to pursue an arts major in college may petition to have an arts-course combination to count as one core course.
 6

Service Requirement
As part of its mission to develop responsible citizens who are “eager to engage in a pluralistic and ever-changing world,” Columbus Academy requires students to engage in community service work. Through school programs and a 50-hour graduation requirement, students will be encouraged to develop the habit of sustained community service.
In order to fulfill the service graduation requirement, students are expected to attend one Upper School Service Day per school year and to complete 50 hours of community service: 5 hours in support of CA programs and 45 hours off-campus with one agency, group or site.
Students have the freedom and flexibility to select their own agencies in order to pursue individual interests so long as their work meets with the approval of the Service Board, an Upper School student organization tasked with directing and managing the graduation requirement.
Prior to starting service work to complete the graduation requirement, service work must be approved by the Service Board.
For information regarding the Service Board’s practices, policies, paperwork, and guidelines, please visit the Service Board website.
• Columbus Academy Intranet • Information
• Service Board
• Learn more on the Service Board Welcome Page
Students have 4 years* to complete graduation requirement. They may begin fulfilling the requirement once they have completed 8th grade and must be finished with the off-campus portion of the requirement by the second Wednesday after Spring Break of the SENIOR YEAR. The 5 Columbus Academy hours must be completed prior to departure for the Senior Project in May.
Students who miss an annual Upper School Service Day will have 5 hours added to their graduation requirement. The only acceptable excuses for absence are religious observations and death of an immediate family member.
Failure to complete the 45-hour off-campus portion of the requirement by the second Wednesday after Spring Break of the senior year will result in a senior’s forfeiture of their Senior Project choice and any service hours accrued to date. Fifty hours will be added to the Senior Project hours (60) for a total of 110 hours of community service to completed during the Senior Project period in May of the senior year. A student who fails to complete these hours by graduation will not receive a diploma at Commencement. Student will receive their diploma upon completion of the 110 community service hours.
  7

*Students who come to Columbus Academy after grade 9 will have their total required number of service hour adjusted. Students entering as Sophomores will be required to complete 40 hours; those entering as Juniors will be required to complete 30 hours; and those entering as Seniors will be required to complete 20 hours. Students may transfer completed hours from pervious schools so long as they meet Columbus Academy standards.
Academic Integrity
Introduction
Columbus Academy holds itself to the highest standards in all endeavors and defines excellence as achievement with integrity. The core values of responsibility, honesty, and fairness are central to the discussion of academic integrity. There can be no excellence without strong commitment to these values.
The central responsibility of Columbus Academy is the development of the intellectual powers of its students in a nurturing and supportive environment. Students are expected to exhibit the highest standards of conduct in the preparation of all academic work. Academic misconduct is a significant offense that will lead to serious disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
Defining Academic Integrity
Academic integrity is the pursuit of academic achievement while strictly adhering to the values of responsibility, honesty, and fairness.
The spirit of academic integrity is one of partnership and relationship. Students and teachers are engaged in the cooperative project of developing each student’s intellectual powers. When this project ceases to be a partnership and begins to take on the spirit of competition and scarce resources, the temptation to cut corners in academic work grows. In this type of environment, students may seek to gain a competitive edge by compromising their commitment to academic integrity.
We desire clear and practical definitions of the behaviors that violate our pledge to academic integrity. Such definitions can be found below. This list, however, is not comprehensive. An action may be a violation of our commitment to academic integrity even if it does not appear on the list below. Instead of asking, “Is this act on the list of forbidden acts?” we urge students to ask, “Is this act dishonest, unfair, or irresponsible?”
Finally, in the spirit of partnership and relationship, we encourage students to ask their teacher if they are unsure whether a certain action is permitted or not.
   8

Examples of Violations of Academic Integrity
Students sometimes engage in academic misconduct unintentionally, and this misconduct often involves ignorance of the rules for citing sources in written work. It is the responsibility of students to understand and adhere to the rules for properly citing sources and crediting resources in written work. Teachers at appropriate levels instruct students clearly and directly on these rules. Therefore, ignorance is no excuse for violating them. It is a student’s responsibility to know and adhere to these rules as part of their commitment to academic integrity.
• Bringing unauthorized note cards or support materials into a testing situation
• Talking or signaling answers to classmates during a test
• Looking at someone else's paper during a test
• Sharing information about a test with classmates who will take same test later that day
• Alerting classmates of a pop quiz in a coming class
• Using and studying from old tests or assignments without permission of the teacher
• Copying another student's homework
• Plagiarism
• Using resources not permitted for an assignment (calculators, class notes, internet, etc.)
Examples of Violations of Academic Integrity Relating to Plagiarism
• Usingotherpeople’swordsorideasasyourown
• Failingtoputaquotationinquotationmarks
• Failingtocitesources
• Givingincorrectinformationaboutthesourceofaquotation
• Changingwordsbutcopyingthesentencestructureofasourcewithoutgivingcredit
• Copying so many words or ideas from a source that it makes up the majority of your
work, whether you give credit or not
Creating Conditions that Promote Academic Integrity
Commitments to responsibility, honesty, and fairness are personal acts of conscience. Consequently, each student bears responsibility for meeting the school’s expectations for academic integrity. Additionally, teachers will promote environments conducive to academic integrity by arranging the classroom and providing clear instruction in ways that minimize the sources of temptation for academic misconduct.
Applying Meaningful Consequences Consistently and Educationally
Violations of academic integrity will be dealt with seriously and consistently, but also with understanding, compassion, and with education in mind. Instances of dishonesty, however, cannot be excused, and if the nature, severity, and/or extent of misconduct warrants, a student may face appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
    9

Teachers, staff, and administrators will immediately report all incidences of academic misconduct to the Dean of Students. The purpose of this requirement is two-fold: (1) to assure that the school is alert to any instance and/or pattern of academic dishonesty on the part of a particular student or group of students, and (2) to ensure the best chance for consistency in rule enforcement. In addition, the research is clear: minor incidents of dishonesty dramatically increase the likelihood of later, more significant incidents of dishonesty. All instances of academic misconduct are to be reported to the Dean of Students. Academic misconduct includes those behaviors listed above, as well as other forms of improper conduct and actions that violate the partnership between the student and teacher.
The Dean of Students is responsible for determining the facts of the incident and communicating with the family of the student in question. In most cases, when the facts have been established, the Dean of Students refers the matter to the Discipline and Honor Committee (DHC). The DHC process is described in a separate section of this handbook.
The Columbus Academy community has an interest in knowing how the school responds to violations of academic integrity. All community members benefit from hearing that rules matter and there are consequences for violating them. However, concerns for privacy and a desire to spare students and their families’ public embarrassment are real and must be considered as well. Balancing these priorities is not easy, and Columbus Academy has pursued a middle course between these two interests. The school’s policy related to communicating disciplinary actions to the school community, including those actions related to academic integrity, can be found under a separate heading in this handbook.
10

Grade Point Average (GPA)
Cumulative grades are reported to students and parents on a quarterly basis. In addition, a system of academic communications (Progress Reports) keeps parents and students informed of significant changes in progress throughout the year. Cumulative weighted GPA calculations are updated at the end of each semester.
Grading and Weighting Scale
    Description
     Grade
   Scale %
   Standard Unweighted
 Advanced Weight+10%
     Honors Weight+15%
   Outstanding
     A+
   97—100
   4.33
 4.66
     4.83
   Superior
       A
      93—96
     4.00
   4.33
      4.50
    Superior
  A—
 90—92
 3.66
3.99
  4.16
   Well Qualified
     B+
   87—89
   3.33
 3.66
     3.83
   Well Qualified
     B
   83—86
   3.00
 3.30
     3.45
   Well Qualified
     B—
   80—82
   2.66
 2.93
     3.06
   Qualified
     C+
   77—79
   2.33
 2.56
     2.68
   Qualified
     C
   73—76
   2.00
 2.20
     2.30
   Qualified
     C—
   70—72
   1.66
 1.83
     1.91
   Poor
     D+
   67—69
   1.33
 1.46
     1.53
   Poor
       D
      63—66
     1.00
   1.10
      1.15
    Poor
  D—
 60—62
 0.66
0.73
  0.76
   Failing
     F
   Below 60
   0.00
 0.00
     0.00
   Passing
     P
      0.00
 0.00
     0.00
   Outstanding
     O
      0.00
 0.00
     0.00
   Incomplete
     I
      0.00
 0.00
     0.00
   Withdrew
       W
           0.00
   0.00
      0.00
   Note: Weighting shall not exceed a maximum of .33 additional weight in the 10% column or .50 additional weight in the 15% column.
Computing Academic Standing (GPA)
Standard weighting on a four-point scale will be applied to normal college preparatory courses. An additional ten percent weight will be added to grades in “Advanced” courses, and an additional fifteen percent weight to grades in “Honors” courses.
Advanced courses typically are accelerated versions of the college—preparatory courses. Honors courses typically are those in which the syllabus is designed predominantly to prepare students for a college level, external examination. Courses that cover two years’ worth of material in one year are included also. Prerequisite criteria must be met for entry to Advanced and Honors courses.
 11

          ADVANCED COURSES HONORS COURSES
      Weight + 10% Weight + 15%
      Advanced English 10 Honors English 11/12 - S1 Honors English 11/12 - S2
                           Advanced Economics
Adv Phil Ethics & Justice-S1 Adv Moral Psychology-S2
Honors World History 2
Honors United States History Honors Comp Government-S1 Honors Modern European History Honors U.S. Government-S2
                        Advanced Geometry Advanced Algebra 2 Advanced Pre-Calculus Advanced Calculus 1
Honors Algebra 2 & Pre-Calculus Honors Calculus 1
Honors Calculus 2
Honors Calculus 1 & 2
Hon Calc-Based Probability & Stats Multivariable Calculus
                   Honors Computer Science 1
Honors Computer Science 2 Honors Computer Science 3
           Advanced Biology Advanced Chemistry Advanced Physics
Honors Biology Honors Chemistry Honors Physics 1 Honors Physics 1 & 2 Honors Physics 2
      Chinese 5 Advanced Spanish 3 Spanish 5
Honors Chinese 4 Honors Chinese 5 Honors Latin 4 Honors Latin 5 Honors Spanish 4 Honors Spanish 5
                                                  Department
English
History
Mathematics
Science
World Languages
•
Weighting Table for Designated Courses
NORMAL COURSES Unweighted
English 9
English 10
English 11/12 - S1
English 11/12 - S2 Beginning Journalism Debate
Public Speaking
World History 1
World History 2
United States History CSBGL Research Methods International Studies-S1 Modern Middle East-S2 Psychology
Algebra 1
Geometry
Algebra 2
Pre-Calculus
Calculus
Applied Mathematics Introduction to Computer Science
Chemistry
Physics
Biology 2
Physics 2: Robotics-S1 Physics 2: Astronomy-S2 Physics 2: Electronics-S2 Chinese 1
Chinese 2 Chinese 3 Chinese 4 Latin 1 Latin 2 Latin 3 Latin 4 Spanish 1 Spanish 2 Spanish 3 Spanish 4
Honors courses offer preparation for Advanced Placement examinations.
                                        12

Grade Reporting and Course Selection
Report Cards
Grades are posted on MyBackpack four times per year: two mid-semester reports (October and March), a Semester 1 report (January), and an end-or-year report (June). Cumulative weighted GPA calculations are updated at the end of each semester.
The grades reported on report cards and in MyBackpack mean the following:
• Q1 or Q3: This is the average of all work at the time of the mid-semester reports
• Q2 or Q4: This is the average of all work at the end of Semester 1 or Semester 2, prior
to midterm or final exam or capstone project (if applicable)
• MX or FX: This is the grade earned on the midterm exam, final exam, or capstone
project (if applicable)
• S1 or S2: This is the average of all in Semester 1 or Semester 2
• FAV: This is the final grade for the course. This grade is used for Cumulative weighted
GPA calculations.
Transcripts
The Upper School transcript is the complete record of a student’s course of study at Columbus Academy. Only final, year—end course grades are noted on a student’s transcript. Quarter grades, semester grades and exam grades are not recorded on the official transcript. Requests to have a copy of a transcript mailed to an agency or institution should be directed to the Upper School Registrar and must be made in writing with specific mention of the recipient of the transcript included. It is the policy of Columbus Academy to withhold transcripts until all financial obligations to the school have been met by the student’s family, or until satisfactory arrangements havebeen made with the school’s Business Office for a future plan of payment.
Independent Study
Independent study is available at Columbus Academy. Students should see the Upper School Head for guidelines and to begin the application process. An independent study must be the sixth academic course and must be approved by the Head of Upper School.
Off—Campus Classes
When the school cannot provide certain courses, students may be permitted to take them off campus. In most cases, these courses do not substitute for Columbus Academy courses but supplement or go beyond the Columbus Academy curriculum.
    13

Students wishing to take courses off campus must petition to the Head of Upper School before enrolling in the course. Columbus Academy gives credit towards graduation by noting the course on the student’s transcript, but the grade is not figured into the student’s GPA.
Incompletes
An incomplete may be given at the end of a marking period only in the case of extended illness or other extraordinary circumstances. Classroom teacher and the Head of Upper School will determine the timeframe for completion.
Add/Drop Period
Every effort is made to give students the classes for which they have been recommended as well as additional classes students have chosen. Once students have completed the scheduling process, they are expected to follow the schedule assigned to them. Classes are carefully balanced for size and facility constraints. Changes are made in student schedules only if an error has occurred or a curricular change is justified.
Students may not attend new classes until the add/drop procedure has been completed. All course changes must be completed within the first three weeks of the course. Depending on who initiates the process and the time of year, the procedures for dropping or adding a course vary. These procedures are outlined below.
Student/Parent—Initiated Within Three Weeks
To drop a class during the three-week drop period, the student will:
1. obtaindrop/addformfromUpperSchoolOffice
2. conferwithhisorheradvisor,currentteacher,andteacherofnewclass 3. conferwithcollegecounselingoffice(forgrades11and12)
4. conferwithparents
5. obtainallnecessarycommentsandsignatures
6. submitdrop/addformtotheDeanofStudies
If the advisor, parent, teacher, college counselor, Department Chair, or Dean of Studies does not think that the requested change is in the best interest of the student, he or she does not sign the form, and the Head of Upper School will get involved in order to reach an appropriate solution.
  14

Student/Parent—Initiated After Three Weeks
Withdrawal from a course after the third week occurs only in unusual and compelling circumstances. Doing poorly in a course does not constitute a reason for withdrawal or change. A student who wishes to petition for such a withdrawal will:
1. conferwiththeAcademicDeanandobtainanadd/dropform 2. conferwithhisorherteacher,advisor,andcollegecounselor 3. obtainallnecessarycommentsandsignatures
4. submitthepetitiontotheAcademicDeanforapproval
If the request is approved by the Academic Dean, the student receives a “W” (meaning withdrawal) on his or her transcript. The “W” is recorded on the transcript and credit is not given.
If a student drops a year-long class at the end of the first semester the first semester grade will be figured into the cumulative grade point average, but no graduation credit will be given for the first semester work. Updated transcripts with letters of explanation are sent to colleges that have received previous transcripts.
School Initiated Add/Drops
School initiated add/drops may occur at any time and may not result in changes on the transcript.
Promotional Record
To be eligible for promotion (or graduation, in the case of a senior) Upper School students must successfully earn a minimum of five credits in full-credit courses. Students must earn a C minus or better in at least 3 of the 5 full credit courses during the year.
Academic Probation
A student will be placed on Academic Probation if a review of mid—semester or end of semester grades and comments indicates that he or she has:
1. anon-promotionalrecordor
2. aminimallypromotionalrecordwithseriousconcernsaboutacademiceffort
A student will remain on Academic Probation until at least the end of the next reporting period. A satisfactory improvement in grades and/or effort may warrant removal from Academic Probation.
  15

A student on Academic Probation is responsible for taking steps to improve his or her grades. These steps include commitment to the following:
• Seeking help from teacher on a regular basis
• Taking initiative to organize assignments and prepare effectively for assessments
• Utilizing available learning support systems
• Communicating academic progress to teachers and parents
In order to support their academic progress, a student on Academic Probation may be required to attend study hall during free periods.
A student who finishes the year on Academic Probation jeopardizes his or her right to return. In such instances the School will recommend one of four courses of action regarding the student:
1. RequiredwithdrawalfromColumbusAcademy
2. Promotiontothenextgradeaftersuccessfulcompletionofsummerstudy 3. Retentionofthestudentforanadditionalyearatthesamegradelevel
4. PromotiontothenextgradewhilecontinuingonAcademicProbation
If a student is placed on Academic Probation at the end of the first semester, his/her re— enrollment contract may be withheld.
Study Halls
Study Halls provide students with structured time and space to complete assignments and to prepare for assessments.
As freshmen acclimate to the Upper School, they will be assigned to a study hall during their free periods from the start of school until their return from Spring Break. At that time, study halls will be assigned according to the Study Hall Guidelines for the Upper School.
Students in grades 10-12 may be assigned to a study hall during their free periods according to the Study Hall Guidelines for the Upper School or at the discretion of the Head of Upper School or Upper School Deans.
Students may be placed in study hall based on factors including, but not limited to:
• Individual course grades
• Assignment completion
• Assessment preparation
• Academic effort
• Personal behavior
 16

Using information received from individual faculty members, the Upper School Progress Review meetings, and our Upper School Child Study Team meetings, the Upper School Dean of Students, or Upper School Dean of Studies may assign study halls to students at any point during the school year to provide additional support for academic growth.
Study hall assignments will continue until the end of each reporting period. Upon review of each student’s academic progress, the study hall will either be suspended or extended through the next grading period.
Academic Services
Classroom Accommodations
Students with disabilities, including diagnosed learning disabilities, may be eligible for special accommodations in the Upper School. These accommodations go beyond the normal considerations that teachers make to promote the success of students everyday, both inside and outside the classroom. Accommodations may include, but are not limited to, extended time on tests, more frequent reporting on student progress, special conference plans, a scheduled time with the Upper School Reading Specialist, and suggested use of laptops or tape recorders in Columbus Academy classrooms.
The selection of appropriate accommodations, ones that both support the student and ensure that the student can meet the expectations of Columbus Academy’s academic program, comes only after a deliberate process. First, learning disabilities that call for special accommodations must be documented. Recommendations for educational and/or psychological testing are made through the Head of Upper School, school psychologist, or school counselor. Parents may also initiate interest in having their child tested and may seek recommendations from school officials on how to proceed. In the event that testing occurs, the combined observations of the student’s teachers and parents may be collected to more clearly identify the potential learning issue. Oftentimes, a meeting of the student’s teachers, school counselor, school psychologist, and Head of Upper School occurs to outline the strategies that will be employed in working with the student.
Counseling Services
The Columbus Academy Upper School has a full-time counselor who serves as a consultant for problems that might interfere with a student’s academic and social progress. The school’s counselor provides personal counseling that affords each student the opportunity to discuss personal issues confidentially. The counselor can be contacted and visits arranged via the campus email system.
Although Columbus Academy provides this service, it must be stressed to students and parents that this counseling help is available only to aid the student in coping with problems that interfere with normal academic and social progress. These services are not intended to
  17

remedy severe learning disabilities, serious psychological disturbance, prolonged chemical dependency, or other problems requiring extensive or long—term attention. If such conditions are determined to exist, the school’s counselor will refer the family to appropriate services outside Columbus Academy.
College Counseling
College Counseling at Columbus Academy has as its primary goals the matriculation of its graduates to those colleges which best suit their abilities and aspirations, and that students will make informed, rather than arbitrary, decisions about their futures. The College Counselors offer direction, based upon evaluation of a student’s academic record and extracurricular interests. Each student will begin meeting with the College Counselors during the second semester of their junior year to coordinate their college application process.
The College Counseling Office provides opportunities for students to meet with college representatives when they visit during the year and to attend workshops with their parents throughout their four years in the Upper School. A large library of catalogues and other information is available for student use. The College Counseling Office processes and mails official school transcripts, assists student—athletes with the NCAA’s Clearinghouse, notifies students about pending standardized testing dates, provides financial aid counseling, and offers opportunities for students to attend college fairs.
Students are encouraged to use established school vacation times to visit college campuses during the college application process in order to avoid missing academic obligations at Columbus Academy. College visits that occur when school is in session require college counselor approval.
The College Counseling Office posts a schedule of college representatives visiting Columbus Academy’s campus. Senior and junior students are invited to meet with college representatives if they have obtained prior approval from classroom teacher(s). Any student who is unable to meet with a college representative during the scheduled time may fill out an information card in the College Counseling Office to demonstrate interest.
 18

Policies, Procedures, and Expectations The Columbus Academy Dress Code
The table below outlines the dress code requirements, noting the different expectations for each of the three divisions. The determination about whether a student’s attire complies with both the letter and the spirit of the dress code will belong to the faculty and administration. Columbus Academy believes in a dress code so as to suggest a certain level of formality during the school day. The dress code attempts to balance comfort and individuality with consideration for community expectations.
No student should dress in a manner which attracts attention or which keeps him or her from full participation in regular school life. The administration reserves the right to address any issues not included in this code if the need arises.
Students and their parents should be aware of Columbus Academy’s dress code and ensure that students arrive at school well-groomed and in clean, neat, and appropriate attire, maintained in good repair. Knowledge of these clothing requirements will prevent families from investing in school clothing that is not allowed during the school day. The dress code is in effect as long as a student is on campus unless he or she changes to appropriate clothes for sports, which should be done in the locker rooms. Students are expected to be in dress code on all field trips unless given specific permission otherwise.
• Students must be in dress code from the time that they arrive on campus until the end of the school day at 3:20pm.
• “Dress Down Days” are limited to three per year on each division level and will be determined on each level.
• Shirts are expected to have a collar and be tucked in at all times.
• Boys are expected to be clean-shaven.
• Sweatshirts with hoods and non-Academy sweatshirts and jackets must be removed
when entering all buildings.
• Students who arrive at school wearing inappropriate attire may be sent home and may
not be allowed into class until they are properly attired.
19

   Attire
       Lower School
    Middle School
      Upper School
    Polo Shirts/Turtlenecks
Solid color polo style shirts with collar, buttoned placket, short or full-length sleeves (no cap sleeves), and free of any non- CA lettering or logos. Shirts must remain tucked.
     White, light blue, navy blue, light pink, maroon, or gray
   White, blue, pink, maroon, gray, black, or purple
   Any solid color
    Blouses/Shirts
Solid color oxford button down shirts or Peter Pan collared blouses free of any non-CA lettering or logos. Shirts must remain tucked.
   White, light blue, navy blue, light pink, maroon, or gray
White, blue, pink, maroon, gray, black, or purple
Undershirts: Any solid color, free of design
Long sleeved shirts and/or undershirts may not be worn under short-sleeved shirts.
  Any solid color
Undershirts: Any solid color, free of design
Long sleeved shirts and/or undershirts may not be worn under short-sleeved shirts.
   Pants
Solid color cotton, cotton-blend, or corduroy pants that are hemmed and have belt loops. Straight leg or boot cut only. No “skinny” or cargo style pants.
      Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray
No patch pockets.
 Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray
Pockets must be void of exterior stitching and zippers. No patch pockets.
     Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray
   Shorts
Solid color cotton or cotton- blend, knee-length shorts. No cargo style shorts.
        Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray
May be worn before Thanksgiving and after Spring Break
    Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray
May be worn before Thanksgiving and after Spring Break
      Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray
May be worn before Thanksgiving and after Spring Break
    Skirts
Skirts should be solid color.
**See Dress Code Style Guide**
   Skorts only...NO SKIRTS.
Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray. No plaid.
No knit fabric.
Knee-length kick-pleat skirt only.
Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray. (Shorts must be worn under skirts.)
Tights/leggings must be worn under skirts from Thanksgiving to Spring Break.
  2 pleat kick-pleat skirt only.
Khaki, stone, navy blue, black, or gray. (Shorts must be worn under skirts.)
Skirts length must be no shorter than 2 inches above the top of the knee.
   Jumpers
One piece, solid color, knee- length, pleated jumpers worn with a dress code shirt or blouse. Shorts must be worn under jumpers.
        Khaki, navy blue, gray, or Academy plaid
Tights/leggings may be worn under jumpers Thanksgiving to Spring Break.
    N/A
      N/A
    Sweaters
Cardigans with buttons or a zipper or sweater vests: solid color crew neck or v-neck. Must be free of hoods, and non-CA lettering and logos.
**See Dress Code Style Guide**
   White, light blue, navy blue, light pink, maroon, or gray
White, blue, pink, maroon, gray, black, or purple
Long sleeved shirts and/or undershirts may not be worn under short-sleeved sweaters.
  Any solid color (waist to hip length)
Long sleeved shirts and/or undershirts may not be worn under short-sleeved sweaters.
   Fleece
Solid color full or half-zippered fleece free of hoods, and shoulder, breast, or elbow patches.
        White, light blue, navy blue, light pink, maroon, or gray. Half-zip only. Must be free of non-CA lettering and logos
    White, blue, pink, maroon, gray, black, or purple. Must be free of non-CA lettering and logos.
      Any solid color. Must be free of non-CA lettering and logos.
   20

   Attire
       Lower School
    Middle School
      Upper School
    CA Sweatshirts
Crew-neck and v-neck CA sweatshirts are permitted. Must be free of hoods.
     Crew-neck and v-neck CA sweatshirts are permitted. Must be free of hoods.
   Crew-neck and v-neck CA sweatshirts are permitted. Must be free of hoods.
   Maroon, gray, black, or white OR any combination of these four colors.
    Shoes Shoes must be worn. See
descriptions for each division for details.
   Athletic shoes or dress shoes. No slippers, Crocs, or Ugg style shoes.
Any closed toe and closed heel shoe with a sole. No slippers.
Sole/heel must not exceed 1.5 inches.
  Solid color black, brown, tan, gray, or navy blue with closed toe, closed heel, and a defined sole.
Sole/heel must not exceed 1.5 inches.
No boot, slipper, or athletic style shoes.
   Socks/Tights/Leggings
Socks/tights/leggings must be worn and visible at all times. Leggings must be free of lace and/or adornments.
      White, navy blue, light pink, maroon, gray, or khaki
Ankle, crew, or knee socks only
 Socks: Matching, any solid color
Tights/Leggings: White, navy blue, maroon, gray, black, or brown
     Socks: Matching, any solid color
Tights: White, navy blue, maroon, gray, black, or brown
   Belts
Belts must be worn with all pants, shorts, and skirts with belt loops.
        Belts must be worn with all pants, shorts, and skirts with belt loops. Belts are not required for Pre-K or K
    Belts must be worn with all pants, shorts, and skirts with belt loops.
      Belts must be worn with all pants, shorts, and skirts with belt loops.
    Jewelry and Accessories
Accessories should not detract from the dress code.
     No hats indoors
Students may wear a watch and one necklace worn under the shirt. No chokers.
Piercings: small gold/silver studs
Ribbons: white, light/navy blue, light pink, maroon, gray, or Academy plaid
Hair Accessories: simple silver/gold or Academy colors. No feathers, flowers, etc.
Nail polish is not permitted.
    No hats indoors
Students may wear a watch and one necklace worn under the shirt.
Students are not permitted to have visible tattoos or body piercings or to have extreme or unnatural hair color/style.
Hair must not cover eyes.
   No hats indoors
Students are not permitted to have visible tattoos or body piercings or to have extreme or unnatural hair color/style.
Hair must not cover eyes.
Boys are expected to be clean-shaven.
   As of 9-8-17, dress code skirts are available at the following establishments:
EDUCATIONAL APPAREL
3906 Brown Park Drive, Hilliard, OH 43026 614-876-3030 www.educationalapparel.com
SCHOOL DAYS UNIFORMS/SCHOOL CLOSET
73 North Stygler Road, Gahanna, OH 43230 614-476-4104 https://schoolcloset.com
TARGET
(Cat and Jack brand)
21

     Dress Code Style Guide and Additional Notes
         Crewneck/V-neck Cardigan w/ Zipper or Buttons
      Kick-pleat skirt
     Crewneck/V-neck Cardigan
       Half-zip/button Cardigan
     1. Sweaters and fleece must be worn over dress code blouses, shirts, or turtlenecks. (US/MS)
2. Columbus Academy “letter jacket” may be worn in lieu of a sweater or fleece OR over a sweater or fleece. (US)
3. Scarves may not be worn during the school day.
4. Outdoor jackets, scarves, and CA windbreakers may not
be worn during the school day. (US)
5. For the purposes of dress code, the term “school day”
means from the time students arrive at school until 3:10pm.
   V-neck Sweater Vest
     Junior Speech Attire
  The Junior Speech program is a respected tradition that culminates in a formal presentation. It is an important and highly visible cultural aspect of the Upper School and a requirement for graduation. In order to reflect the significance of the event, students are expected to dress appropriately for the occasion with professional attire suitable for a college or job interview. Students must check in with the US Administration and Mr. Kirk prior to, or on the morning of, one’s junior speech. If attire is deemed inappropriate, students will be required to change their formal attire or wear regular school dress code for their speech delivery.
Students are required to wear a suit and tie or dress slacks, dress shirt, tie, and sports coat. Dresses and skirts must fall within 2 inches of the knee. Dress pants with a blouse or nice shirt are also acceptable.
Clothing should be modest and not overly tight. Shoulders need to be covered and necklines may not be revealing. Dress shoes are required and heels may be no greater than 3 inches.
Commencement Attire for Seniors
Reasonable cost, simplicity, flexibility, and an interest in an appropriately formal overall class appearance are key concepts that support the graduation attire guidelines presented below. The occasion is one of celebration, respect, thoughtfulness, and appreciation which finds some of its meaning in the way seniors appear.
 22

Boys: Students will wear dark colored suits or sport coats with white shirts, and ties and dress slacks. Dress shoes and dark socks are required.
Girls: Students will wear white or off—white one—piece dresses. The dresses should have modest necklines (no cleavage), must not have cut-outs in the bodice, and must not be strapless or off the shoulder. Straps should be at least 1 inch wide, the dress should be below the knee to floor length and the back of the dress should not dip below the bra line. Dress shoes are required and must be a neutral color such as white, ivory, silver, or gold. Hats, gloves, and flip-flops are not permissible. Graduation dresses must be approved by the Upper School Office.
Failure to adhere to Commencement Attire guidelines may prohibit a senior from participating in the graduation ceremony.
Honors Assembly and Commencement Attire for Underclassmen
Students in grades 9-11 are required to be in school dresscode for Honors Assembly. Please note that Commencement requires students to dress more formally. We ask that students dress appropriately for an occasion that is one of celebration, respect and thoughtfulness. To be more specific, boys are expected to wear a sport coat and tie or a suit, and girls are expected to wear knee-length dresses (with modest necklines) or skirts. Girls must wear a sweater over any dress or top that does not cover the shoulders and may not wear flip-flops.
Attendance Procedures
Morning Attendance Procedures
Upper School students check in with designated faculty members in the Upper School lobby between 7:40 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. in order to be ready for academic obligations that begin promptly at 8:05 a.m.
Students who do not check in prior to the start of their first period will receive a “Did Not Check In” (DNC) infraction. Students arriving on campus after the lobby attendance period are considered tardy, and must sign in on the board next to the Dean’s office on their way to first period class. Detentions are assigned after receiving 3 attendance infractions.
Students must arrive for school prior to 10:00 a.m. in order to be eligible for participation in after-school activities. If an after-school activity participant arrives after 10:00 a.m., a decision about participation will be determine by the Dean of Students in conjunction with the relevant after-school activity coordinator (Athletic Director, Fine and Performing Arts Department Chair, etc...)
    23

Many factors shape a positive school culture, one of which is prompt arrival to the Upper School by 8:00am. Columbus Academy recognizes that family emergencies and inclement weather occasionally interfere with arriving on time to school. However, when unexcused attendance infractions occur in the Upper School, they are met with the following sequence of responses:
• 3 attendance infractions (such as unexcused tardies, failure to check in or unknown whereabouts) equals one after-school detention;
• After being issued 3 detentions for attendance infractions, each additional infraction will directly result in one after-school detention;
• After being issued 5 (one infraction = one detention) detentions, students will be assigned a week (5 days) of morning check-in duty (7:40 a.m. – 8:00 a.m.);
• If the above responses fail to correct the behavior, parent(s) and student will be required to have a meeting with the Head of Upper School.
Upper School Daily Attendance Policy
Academy’s academic program requires regular attendance by students and participation in all of the unique events that complement the school’s work in the classroom. Excessive absences from class, whether excused or unexcused, affect a student’s ability to participate fully in the school experience, and may interrupt the classroom learning process. Excessive absences may also be reflected in the participation component of the student’s grade.
All absences, whether extended, one day, or part-of-the-day, must be communicated to the school by the parent/guardian. One day or part-of-the-day absences should be reported to the Upper School Assistant by the start of the school day. Extended planned absences need to be cleared with the Head of Upper School at least two weeks in advance.
Excused absences from school include religious holiday observance, ill health, family emergencies, and medical appointments that cannot be scheduled outside of school hours. Parents/guardians may request special consideration for excused absences in unique situations by arranging a conference to discuss the request with the appropriate Division Head at least two weeks before the decision is needed. Students granted excused absences from school are responsible for all academic assignments announced during their absence and are allowed to make up missed classroom work. The student and teacher(s) will arrange the time frame in which work is to be completed without penalty. At the Upper School level, the student (not the teacher) is expected to own the process of making up work and determining deadlines.
Parents/guardians must notify the school in advance when an excused absence due to religious holiday observation is required. It will be assumed that a student absent for a religious holiday is unable to study or prepare school assignments during the holiday. As such, the student will not be immediately accountable after the absence for any assignments given or material covered in class during the absence, although the student is not excused
  24

from ultimate responsibility for missed work. The student and teacher(s) will arrange the time frame in which work is to be completed without penalty.
For absences related to college visits, juniors are advised to begin that process over spring break and during the summer. Seniors are advised to use the suggested dates sent from the college office. Any absences from school for college visits that fall outside of those dates require permission from parents/guardians, teachers, Head of Upper School, Dean of Students and College Counseling. Dates not approved may be recorded as unexcused.
All unexcused absences will be recorded in the student’s records and students may receive failing grades for missed work. Deadlines for assigned work may not be extended for unexcused absences. For excused absences, students are allowed one day per each day missed to make up classwork/homework. (Example: If a student misses school due to illness on Tuesday and homework is assigned that is due the following day on Wednesday, the student will have until Thursday to turn in the assignment.) The school does not excuse students to leave for vacations including the days before or after announced school holidays.
Furthermore, absence from events considered to be an important part of the school’s culture and listed in the school calendar will not be considered excused absences. These events, including (but not limited to) activities such as the first day(s) of school, Community Service Days, and Closing Ceremonies, are important for building a common history. Students who do not participate in important community events may experience feelings of disconnection, or may be seen as being disconnected by peers.
While prolonged absence due to severe illness will be considered a special circumstance, the above criteria may still apply. Each situation will be reviewed individually.
Excessive Absenteeism
Absences that become habitual or excessive compromise a student’s learning. If a student misses four (4) of the same class in any four-week period, parents/guardians will be contacted by the Dean’s office to better understand what is hindering attendance and to strategize a plan for improvement. If a student reaches eight (8) absences for the same class(es) in a given semester, parents/guardians will be required to meet with the Dean of Students or Academic Dean, along with the Division Head. The school considers eight (8) or more absences (excused or unexcused) for any class in one semester to be excessive.
At 12 absences, a student may jeopardize their credit in the class.
Additionally, special attention will be paid to students who develop a pattern of being absent when assessments are scheduled. In this event, faculty will provide data to the Dean’s office and the student will have a meeting with the Dean of Students and/or Academic Dean. Parents/guardians will also be notified. If the pattern continues, students will be given explicit parameters regarding completion dates that will not allow further flexibility.
 25

We expect and appreciate parent/guardian cooperation with this. Daily class attendance is a critical component of a child’s academic success and the learning process. Part of what strengthens the classroom experience is the participation of and contribution by classmates.
Leaving Campus
When a student becomes ill during the course of the school day, he or she should visit the Nurse’s office (located in the basement of the Middle School) or the Dean of Students immediately. Students should remain in the nurse’s/Dean’s office until an adult can contact a parent or legal guardian. Once a parent or legal guardian gives permission for the student to leave school, the student may sign out on the board near the Dean’s office before leaving campus. The school nurse or Dean will determine whether or not a student may drive home safely or whether an adult must pick the student up from campus. No student may leave campus without permission from either the Upper School Head, Dean of Students, Upper School Assistant, or School Nurse.
Students needing to leave campus for reasons other than illness, must get permission from the Upper School Head, Dean of Students, or Upper School Assistant.
Harassment Policy
The Columbus Academy encourages and welcomes diversity. The school respects individual differences based on race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, or any other class protected by law. As such, Columbus Academy is committed to maintaining a school environment free from discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation based on any of the protected classes listed above. Discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation will not be tolerated
Sexual Harassment is one form of prohibited harassment. Conduct may constitute sexual harassment under this policy when it is unwelcome conduct of a sexual nature that serves to substantially interfere with a student’s education or creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive school environment. Examples of sexual harassment may include, but are not limited to, unwanted sexual demands, demands for sexual favors in exchange for favorable treatment, obscene or suggestive sexual jokes, remarks or insults, sexual advances or propositions, and other similar types of unwelcome behavior of a sexual nature, including the transmission of sexually-oriented emails or other electronic communications.
Separate from sexual harassment, other prohibited harassment involves conduct based on protected characteristics other than sex. Examples of other types of prohibited harassment include, but are not limited to, the following:
 26

• Verbal abuse, slurs, jokes. This includes oral or written jokes, slurs and comments based on an individual’s race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, or any other class protected by law.
• Cartoons or other graphic materials. This includes written materials, pictures and other depictions that are demeaning or hostile and are based on an individual’s race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, or any other class protected by law.
• Threats/pranks. This includes intimidating, threatening, bullying or hazing conduct based on an individual’s race, color, gender, religion, national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, or any other class protected by law.
You should follow this procedure if you feel you have been harassed:
1. Let the offending person or people know you want the behavior to stop. Say NO firmly! Look directly at them with a straight face to give a clear message about how you feel. Do not apologize. UNEQUIVOCALLY CONVEY THE FACT THAT THE CONDUCT IS UNWELCOME. If, however, you feel uncomfortable communicating with the individual directly, it is your responsibility to bring your complaint to the attention of the Head of School, Division Head, Dean of Students or Counselor immediately. The school cannot address your concerns if it is not aware of them.
2. If the conduct does not cease or if you are not satisfied with the results of your initial conversation, it is your responsibility to immediately bring the situation to the attention of one of the following adults to resolve your concerns: teacher, advisor, Dean of Students, school counselor, or Head of Upper School. Upon receipt of any such report, the adult must share the information immediately with the Head of Upper School. Following the receipt of any such report, Columbus Academy will conduct a complete and thorough investigation into the incident. This may include conversations with adults up to and including the Head of School. During the investigation, the School will commit to doing its best to treat the matter as confidential. Once a decision has been reached, and depending on the nature of it, the Dean of Students, Head of Upper School, or Head of School will convey that information to the parties involved. That decision may include appropriate discipline, up to and including dismissal.
A response from the school to the situation may be made in consultation with the person making the complaint. Each person at Columbus Academy has the right to participate fully in the life of the school without harassment.
Retaliation against an individual who makes a good-faith report of harassment is strictly prohibited. Such retaliation is a serious violation of policy, should be reported immediately, and may result in appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal. Any individual who makes a knowingly false complaint of harassment or discrimination, or who otherwise acts
27

in bad faith, will also be subject to appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
Drug, Alcohol, and Tobacco Policy
The Columbus Academy understands that the use of illegal substances can hinder healthy development and can be symptomatic of concerns in students’ lives. The Academy’s drug, alcohol, and tobacco policy reflects an interest in cultivating a substance free environment on campus and a belief that early identification and response to misuse can help prevent or interrupt abuse and/or addiction. In order to achieve these school community objectives, students and parents must be knowledgeable about this policy and participate in the appropriate educational opportunities related to the use of drugs, alcohol, and tobacco.
1. TheAcademyisfirminitsbeliefthatourcampusmustbeasubstanceandsmoke/vape free environment. Students may not possess, use, distribute, or be under the influence of alcohol, drugs (including recreational use of prescription drugs), vapes/Juuls or tobacco while under the school’s jurisdiction. The school’s jurisdiction includes anytime during the school day; anywhere on the school campus; or anywhere and at any time while attending a school sponsored event, including “away” athletic competitions. These prohibitions include possession of drug or tobacco paraphernalia and alcohol containers. In order to enforce this policy, Columbus Academy may require a student to undergo professionally administered screening tests to assess his or her use of drugs or alcohol. If a student is determined to have violated the drug and alcohol rules contained in this policy while under the school’s jurisdiction, he or she may face appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
2. The Academy recognizes that early identification and response to misuse can help prevent or interrupt abuse and/or addiction. In the event of a family or a student voluntarily disclosing problems related to the use of alcohol, tobacco, or drugs, the school will work cooperatively to assure that the student receives support, intervention, and any other needed assistance while working through the concerns identified.
3. ColumbusAcademyisinterestedinthesafetyandhealthofallitsstudentsandbelieves that responsibility for student actions off campus lies with parents. Upon learning of student involvement with drugs, alcohol, or tobacco off campus, the Academy may choose to counsel the student and communicate with the student’s parents in order to encourage openness and accountability. When students’ use of drugs, alcohol, or tobacco off-campus discredit the school or reflect a disregard for the health and safety of others in the school community or in the community at large, the Academy will respond and may take disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal.
4. Columbus Academy expects that school parents will abide by applicable laws and not make alcohol, prescription, or illegal drugs available to their children or other students in
28

their homes, nor allow a situation to occur in which students can congregate at a home to use illegal or prescription drugs or alcohol. Failure to abide by this expectation constitutes a violation of the partnership that the Academy must count on from parents. This violation could impact the parents’ and students’ involvement or membership in the school community.
Weapons
Columbus Academy takes a zero tolerance position on weapons possession. The school prohibits all persons from possessing any weapon, including items that look like or purport to be weapons, while in school, on school grounds, at school-sponsored activities/events, arriving/departing from school grounds or school-sponsored activities/events, and on school buses or any other school vehicle. Any student in possession of a weapon is subject to immediate dismissal from Columbus Academy.
Discipline
Detention
After school detentions are assigned at the discretion of the faculty member to students for routine discipline matters such as dress code violations, eating food in the Upper School building, and accumulating three tardies to school or class. Detentions are served from 3:15 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. on the day or day after they are earned. Detentions take precedence over all other extracurricular activities or commitments. Students serving detentions should report promptly at 3:15 p.m. to the faculty member on duty.
A teacher may assign an academic detention to a student who has not completed work on time. The difference between this type of detention and a disciplinary detention is that the purpose of academic detention is to ensure that students finish specific work. The detention takes precedence over all other activities.
Discipline and Honor Committee
The Discipline and Honor Committee meets as needed and to consider cases where a student has violated major school rules and/or has demonstrated a pattern of problematic behavior. The Committee is made up of 3-4 elected students, 3-4 faculty members, and the Dean of Students. The Committee is chaired by the Head of Upper School.
Such meetings are designed to provide the school an opportunity to build a deeper understanding of the student’s actions, and to give the student an opportunity to present his or her viewpoint, to understand clearly what he or she has done wrong, and to hear strategies on
  29

how to improve decision making going forward. Through the Discipline and Honor Committee process, a student is able to learn from representatives of the community and time and space is provided for careful and intentional school responses to behavior.
The following constitute the procedures of the Discipline and Honor Committee. In unusual circumstances, such as incidents of personal risk to students or when school is not in regular session, aspects of these procedures may be adjusted to fit the circumstances:
1. The Discipline and Honor Committee will endeavor to meet promptly after it has been determined a meeting is necessary. A meeting will not take place, however, until there has been sufficient time for information gathering and until the student and his or her parents have been informed of the procedures.
2. If any of the regular members of the Discipline and Honor Committee are unable to attend a meeting, the Head of Upper School may assign a substitute member or determine that the meeting will take place with a smaller group in attendance.
3. A student who meets with the Discipline and Honor committee is permitted and encouraged to bring an adult advocate. The adult advocate is an adult member of the Columbus Academy staff (a teacher, a coach, advisor, etc.) whose role is to counsel and support the student, to corroborate what the student is saying, offer perspective on the student, and to keep the student from having to be alone.
4. During the first part of the meeting, the student and the Committee review a written description of the relevant behaviors as understood by the Dean of Students and discuss the behavior’s impact on the community. The primary purpose of the written description is to clarify what happened so that the Committee and the student can focus on learning from what happened. During this part of the meeting, the Committee works to understand the student’s perspective, and to help the student to understand why the behavior was problematic and to avoid or modify the behavior moving forward.
5. During the second part of the meeting, the student and the adult advocate are excused and the Committee discusses what it feels the school’s response should be to the events. The Committee is empowered to recommend a range of responses from “no further consequences” to suspension and dismissal. A recommendation is made to the Head of School who ultimately decides what actions are to be taken.
6. The Discipline and Honor Committee will endeavor to meet promptly after it has been determined a meeting is necessary. A meeting will not take place, however, until there has been sufficient time for information gathering and until the student and his or her parents have been informed of the procedures.
 30

7. If any of the regular members of the Discipline and Honor Committee are unable to attend a meeting, the Head of Upper School may assign a substitute member or determine that the meeting will take place with a smaller group in attendance.
8. DiscussionswithintheDisciplineandHonorCommitteemeetingaretobeconfidential.
9. On the day a student meets with the Committee, the student CANNOT participate in after school activities until a final decision has been made.
10. A final decision will be communicated to the student and his/her parents by the Dean of Students, the Head of Upper School, or the Head of School. A summary of the meeting and the final decision will be communicated in writing.
11.At the discretion of the Head of School and/or the Head of Upper School, the results of a Discipline and Honor meeting may be communicated to the faculty and student body as deemed appropriate to serve the broader interests of Columbus Academy.
The highest aim of the Discipline and Honor Committee, as is the aim of all discipline at Columbus Academy, is to educate young people in the ways of acceptable behavior in our community. Wherever possible, the Committee tries to suit any sanction to the student’s actions in such a way as to further underscore the lessons discussed with the student in the meeting.
Additionally, there are some situations when it is not ideal or appropriate to have student peers involved in the decision-making process. This may include, but is not limited to, circumstances of a sexual nature or instances where the elements are too personal to be shared with peers. In these cases, only adult members of the DHC would convene.
Suspension
Suspensions are effective immediately upon the decision of the appropriate administrator and last until the morning the student is allowed to return to the community. On the day that the DHC committee meets, a student will be held from after-school activities until a decision is made by the appropriate administrator.
A student who is suspended from school is suspended from attending all Columbus Academy- sponsored activities from the time the decision is made until the time that student is permitted to return. CA sponsored activities include school sponsored trips, athletic practices or games, theater rehearsals or performances, musical performances, and student led events like dances.
Students returning from a disciplinary suspension are permitted to receive extra help from her or his teachers, to make up tests or quizzes missed, and to submit work assigned before the
 31

suspension occurred or during the period of absence, without incurring academic penalty due to the suspension. In all cases, however, the student must take the initiative to seek help and/ make arrangements to make up tests or submit assigned work. The tests, quizzes, and assigned work must also be completed in a timely and reasonable manner, with all deadlines determined by the teachers, who will, should the case arise, then apply the sanctions which are customary to situations where a student does not make up work within the period of time deemed reasonable and proper.
Suspensions and dismissals that occur while a student is in Columbus Academy's Upper School, including after applications to colleges have been submitted, will be reported to colleges and universities. Students will be advised to report the change in status to the college. The College Counseling office will report the suspension or dismissal as well. The Director of College Counseling will work with the Upper School administration and the student in question to develop an accurate portrait of events and the reasons for the School's response.
Disciplinary Probation
When a student’s citizenship record, either through repeated violations of school rules or a single major offense, jeopardizes his or her continued presence at the Columbus Academy, the school’s administration can place the student on Disciplinary Probation. Any future violation of Columbus Academy rules or policies by a student on Disciplinary Probation will likely lead to further disciplinary consequences, including dismissal from school.
Disciplinary Warning
Continued citizenship or behavioral concerns about a student can result in the school’s administration placing the student on Disciplinary Warning. The length of time a student spends on Disciplinary Warning will be determined by the school’s administration. If a student is already on Disciplinary Warning and continues to demonstrate concerning behavior, he/she is subject to more serious disciplinary responses, including a meeting with the Discipline and Honor Committee, and possibly suspension.
Communicating Disciplinary Decisions
Columbus Academy seeks to take advantage of opportunities to build community and reinforce our shared values. Such opportunities exist when the standards and expectations that hold our community together are violated. When the need for school discipline arises, our community is strengthened by a reminder that we are bound by a shared purpose in a cooperative project made possible by members who honor the community’s standards and expectations.
It shall be the practice in the Upper School that whenever a significant violation of school rules occurs, the Division Heads will notify the students and adult members of their community.
   32

In the Upper School, an event will be considered significant if it is one that ordinarily requires a meeting of the Discipline and Honor Committee. This committee meets whenever there has been a violation of a major school rule or a demonstrated pattern of problematic behavior. The Head of Upper School, in consultation with the Dean of Students, has discretion and may make exceptions to this guideline.
Any incident that is reported to students will also be reported to the faculty and staff of that division. Ideally, faculty and staff will be notified at least 24-hours in advance of a public announcement made to students. Some incidents of wide impact may be reported to the faculty and staff of other divisions, as well, since some incidents may impact siblings and some adults who coach or advise students from other divisions. The Division Heads will make the determination in such cases.
In the Upper School, students will be notified of disciplinary actions during the next appropriate assembly following resolution of the incident. Exceptions to this guideline may occur due to previously scheduled assembly events.
Students who were the subject of the disciplinary action will be notified prior to assembly that their incident will be announced, and they will be given the option of not attending that assembly.
Division Heads will follow a standard outline in delivering their announcements. The announcement will not include the name of the student(s) involved in the incident. This practice will not prevent students from knowing the identity of the student(s) involved or seeking to learn the names if they do not know. However, refraining from the direct use of names could lessen unnecessary embarrassment.
The standard outline for announcing disciplinary actions is as follows:
“We have a significant disciplinary incident to report to the community. Last (date), a student (event). This behavior is a violation of (school rule) and is contradictory to the values of (school value) that this school stands for. As a result, this student (brief description of consequence). We consider this incident closed and the matter resolved, and we have welcomed this student back to school with the same level of support that we extend to all of you. We ask that you do the same.”
Circumstances may require deviation from this formula, and the Division Head in consultation with the Dean of Students has discretion in this regard.
33

Campus Life
Upper School Advisory System
The purpose of the Advisory Program is to provide a consistent, safe, and caring space to enrich and enhance the student’s overall experience at Columbus Academy. The goals of the Advisory Program are:
1. To provide students and parents with an adult who is the first point of contact with questions or concerns related to the student’s social, emotional, behavioral, and extracurricular life at school.
2. To promote an advisor/student relationship which fosters and supports the needs and well being of the students and parents.
3. To provide and connect each student with an adult who can act as an advocate on his/her behalf or connect the student with the appropriate resources as needed.
4. To promote a space and time for students to learn from one or another, to foster small group friendships within a larger community, and to ensure adult support in a relaxed, less formal environment.
The role of the advisor is:
1. Toactasthefirstpointofcontactforparentsongeneralquestionsandtobeapotential point of contact on academic questions.
2. To know the student – to pay attention to the academic, social, and emotional lives of the student during their entire Upper School experience.
3. To help coach students to achieve academic success, personal growth, and active citizenship in our community.
4. To be able to communicate in informed ways to parents and in grade meetings about how the student is doing.
5. To create a consistent, safe, and caring space for advisory meetings that fosters a sense of belonging.
6. To be a resource and part of a network for students – understanding when it is necessary to refer the student to the appropriate “specialist”.
7. To support student grade level activities such as participating in advisory activities, chaperoning dances, and supporting the Dean of Students as needed.
 34

Automobiles
Driving to school is a privilege granted to students by their parents and Columbus Academy. Students who drive cars to school must register their cars with the Upper School office, to park them in the assigned lots in designated parking spaces, and to respect state and local laws so as not to endanger the lives and property of others. Students will receive a parking placard, which must be hung from the rearview mirror so that it is easily visible. The posted campus speed limit is 15mph.
Under no circumstances are students to leave campus in cars either as drivers or passengers prior to the end of the academic school day unless, prior to departure, a note, email, or phone call from home specifying day, time and purpose for departure has been received by the Upper School Head, Deans of Students, or Upper School Assistant, or the Upper School Head or Dean of Students has given permission. The privilege of driving on campus may be revoked if students abuse the privilege. Specific directions will be given to Upper School students as the need arises.
Parking
All Upper School students may park only in designated student parking areas. Students may not be in the parking lots during the school day without permission from the Upper School Head, Dean of Students or a faculty member. Cars may not be moved from one lot to another at any time during the school day or after school unless the student has been given permission to do so by the Upper School Head or the Dean of Students.
A student who needs to leave their car on campus overnight must submit a parking release form to the campus security officer in Academy Hall. Parking release forms are available online or in the Upper School Office.
Food
In order to preserve Upper School facilities for future generations of Columbus Academy students and in order to maintain an appropriate academic environment, no food is permitted in any building with the exception of the Dining Hall or in a classroom with faculty supervision. Chewing gum is not permitted. Students enjoying food outside the academic buildings and dining hall should remain mindful and respectful of the public spaces on campus and make certain that trash is not left behind.
Cell phones and Handheld Devices
The use of cell phones/handheld devices during school hours (upon arrival to school until 3:10 pm) is limited to using them solely for their “computer” functions, not as a method to place or receive phone calls, unless specific permission has been granted by a member of the faculty, staff, or administration. Phones should be turned off and out of sight when not in use. Locations where students may use their phones are limited to hallways, common areas, the
      35

Library, Dining Hall, and outside. In the classroom, teachers have full authority to define expectations of usage.
Students may not use their cell phones in the hallways to and from all Assemblies and Junior Speeches. Cell phones are not permitted in the Theater at any time.
Failure to use a cell phone responsibly will result in a detention and the phone being confiscated. All phones that are confiscated will be turned in to the Dean’s office and returned to students at the discretion of the Dean of Students. Additionally, phones may be searched in cases of suspected academic dishonesty, a possible violation of the Campus Network Acceptable Use Policy, or general inappropriate behavior with regard to cell phone use.
Headphones for laptops or music players are not permitted in public spaces and are, in fact, discouraged anywhere on campus during the school day. However, use of headphones may be permitted when being used for schoolwork.
Field Trips
Field trips are considered classes away from campus. All school rules are enforced on field trips. This includes heightened attention to deportment and personal appearance. Columbus Academy dress code attire is expected, unless otherwise noted and approved by the Upper School Head.
Campus Network Acceptable Use Policy
The computer network environment supported by The Columbus Academy is designed to enhance the learning and teaching activities of the Academy's students, faculty, and staff. The term "network" refers to a number of computers and other electronic tools that are connected to each other for the purpose of communication and data sharing. The Columbus Academy Network is a part of the Internet. The Internet is a global network made up of many smaller contributing networks. Its services are intended to support open research and education in and among U.S. research and instructional institutions. The number of users is in the millions and growing daily. The power of the Internet comes from the energy of these many dispersed minds working together to solve problems and discuss issues. There is little in the way of hierarchy or control of the discourse, and it is virtually impossible to prevent students from accessing objectionable materials while preserving their status as full members of the Internet community. The purpose of this statement is to provide an acceptable use policy for the use of The Columbus Academy network facilities and services, internal as well as Internet. The Academy reserves the right to modify this policy at any time.
It is the policy of The Columbus Academy to maintain access for its community to local, national, and international sources of information. The Columbus Academy works to create an intellectual environment in which students, staff, and faculty may feel free to create and to
  36

collaborate with colleagues at any institution, without fear that the products of their intellectual efforts will be violated by misrepresentation, tampering, destruction and/or theft.
The Columbus Academy characterizes as unethical, unacceptable and just cause for taking disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal, removal of networking privileges and/or legal action, violation of the following directives:
1. Userswillnotusethisoranyotherinterconnectednetworkinamannerthatviolatesthe policies and procedures of Columbus Academy.
2. Users will not seek to gain or gain unauthorized access to information resources including other students' accounts or devices.
3. Users will not destroy, alter or otherwise interfere with the integrity of The Columbus Academy resources.
4. Userswillnotinvadetheprivacyofindividualsorentities.
5. Users will not use this or any other interconnected network for illegal or criminal purposes.
6. Userswillnotshareone'spassword,allowanothertouseone'saccount,oruseanother person's account with or without their permission.
7. Userswillnottransmitthreatening,obscene,orharassingmaterials.
8. Userswilluseappropriatelanguage.Profanityorobscenitywillnotbetolerated.
9. Userswillavoidoffensiveorinflammatoryspeech.
10.Users will adhere to the rules of copyright, licensing agreements and all other contracts.
11.Users will not repost personal communications without the original author's prior consent.
12.Users will avoid the knowing or inadvertent spread of computer viruses and worms. 13.Users will not send or receive any obscene or pornographic material.
14.Users will not engage in on-line gambling or gaming.
15.Users will not share personal information with anyone over the Internet.
37

Exemplary behavior is expected at all times. When "visiting" locations on the Internet, users must conduct themselves as representatives of both their school and their community as a whole. This policy is applicable to any member of The Columbus Academy Community, whether at The Columbus Academy or elsewhere. The Columbus Academy faculty has the right and obligation to determine what is acceptable or unacceptable use of the technology facilities at The Academy.
Users should have no expectation of privacy. If a user is believed to be in violation of the guidelines stated in this policy, a system administrator or teacher may need to gain access to private correspondence or files. All users are responsible for the use of their accounts. All violations of this policy that can be traced to an individual account name will be treated as the sole responsibility of the owner of that account. Under no conditions should you give your password to another user. Users should bring any threatening or unwelcome communications to the attention of the system administrator as soon as possible.
38
